Updated README (#841)
krzys-h/UndertaleModTool: README.md

<p align="center">
  <img src="images/logo.png" alt="UndertaleModTool Logo"/>
</p>

[![Underminers Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/566861759210586112?label=Discord&logo=discord&logoColor=white)](https://discord.gg/UMwccfs2Hb) [![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/github/license/krzys-h/UndertaleModTool?logo=github)](https://github.com/krzys-h/UndertaleModTool/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

<p align="center">(seeing such an amazing tool it fills you with DETERMINATION.)</p>
<p align="center">Heya. I heard you like digging deep into Undertale/Deltarune or any GameMaker game data so I made a tool just for you!</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="images/flowey.gif" alt="Flowey"/>
</p>

# Downloads

> Both the latest stable release and the most cutting edge version can be downloaded from the table below!
> 
> | Releases 	| Status 	|
> |:---:	|----------	|
> | Stable¹ ² 	| [![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/krzys-h/UndertaleModTool/latest/total)](https://github.com/krzys-h/UndertaleModTool/releases/latest) |
> | Bleeding edge¹ 	| [![Build tool NET Bundled](https://github.com/krzys-h/UndertaleModTool/actions/workflows/build_net.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/krzys-h/UndertaleModTool/actions/workflows/build_net.yml) |
> 
> ¹: UndertaleModTool has different builds per release. The differences are as follows:
> * `.NET bundled` - bundles the required .NET runtime version needed to run the tool alongside it. All stable releases are .NET bundled, so you don't have to worry about installing the necessary runtime.
> * `Single file` - the tool is only one executable, with all dependencies embedded within it. This does make your folders cleaner, however it also causes some unexpected stability issues.
> * `Non-single File` - all dependencies are not embedded within the executable, but are now located right next to it. Choose this if you don't care about finding the right executable in-between of ~300 dll's, or if the stability issues from the `Single file` build affect you.
> 
> ²: You can update to the bleeding edge releases at any time from within the settings menu of UndertaleModTool.

Reviewer: After reading through this again, IMO this sounds nicer:
```suggestion
Both the latest stable release and the most cutting edge version can be downloaded from the table below!
Note, that you can update to the bleeding edge releases at any time from within the settings menu of UndertaleModTool.  

| Releases 	| Status 	|
|:---:	|----------	|
| Stable 	| [![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/krzys-h/UndertaleModTool/latest/total)](https://github.com/krzys-h/UndertaleModTool/releases/latest) |
| Bleeding edge 	| [![Build tool NET Bundled](https://github.com/krzys-h/UndertaleModTool/actions/workflows/build_net.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/krzys-h/UndertaleModTool/actions/workflows/build_net.yml) |

It's worth noting that UndertaleModTool has different builds per release. The differences are as follows:
* `.NET bundled` - bundles the required .NET runtime version needed to run the tool alongside it. All stable releases are .NET bundled, so you don't have to worry about installing the necessary runtime.
* `Single file` - the tool is only one executable, with all dependencies embedded within it. This does make your folders cleaner, however it also causes some unexpected stability issues.
* `Non-single File` - all dependencies are not embedded within the executable, but are now located right next to it. Choose this if you don't care about finding the right executable in-between of ~300 dll's, or if the stability issues from the `Single file` build affect you.
```

* All core IO functionality extracted into a library for use in external tools.
* Can generate an .yydebug file for the GM:S debugger so that you can edit variables live! (see [here](https://github.com/krzys-h/UndertaleModTool/wiki/Corrections-to-GameMaker-Studio-1.4-data.win-format-and-VM-bytecode,-.yydebug-format-and-debugger-instructions#yydebug-file-format))

# Screenshots

Here's some screenshots of what UTMT can do:

> ## [AM2R: Horde Mode Mod](https://github.com/Hornoads/AM2R-The-Horde-Multitroid/releases)

Reviewer: Horde is actually called `AM2R: The Horde`.

> <img src="images/am2r.png" alt="AM2R: Horde Mode" width="640" height="480"/>

Reviewer: Wouldn't it be better if the image would be called `am2r-horde`?

> <img src="images/am2r.png" alt="AM2R: Horde Mode" width="640" height="480"/>

Reviewer: I got notified that the image here is actually just a mockup of a scrapped idea created in paint software.
Here's an actual image taken from the Mod
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/38186597/166960348-416dc464-77be-4ee9-a100-f2605a92774e.png)

## [Undertale: Bits and Pieces Mod](https://gamejolt.com/games/UndertaleBnP/574044)
<img src="images/bnp-ut.png" alt="BnP" width="640" height="480"/>

## [RIBBIT - The Deltarune Mod](https://gamejolt.com/games/ribbitmod/671888)
<img src="images/ribbit-dr.png" alt="RIBBIT" width="640" height="480"/>

# Included Scripts

Included are some test scripts. They are, but not limited to:

> * Universal:

Reviewer: This really should get renamed, or the scripts here should get reordered. EnableDebug, DebugToggler, GoToRoom and ShowRoomName for example are not universal.

* Work on the profile system
* Decompiler improvements
* Dark mode / theming support
* Add support for latest versions of GameMaker (notably, 2.3) - decompiler cannot function in most cases currently
* Eventually, making the tool cross-platform if possible

# Compilation Instructions

In order to compile the repo yourself, the `.NET Core 5 SDK` or later is required.

The following projects can be compiled:  
- `UndertaleModLib`: The core library used by all other projects.
- `UndertaleModCli`: A command line interface for interacting with GameMaker data files and applying scripts. Currently is very primitive in what it can do.
- `UndertaleModTool`: The main graphical user interface for interacting with GameMaker data files. **Windows is required in order to compile this**.

#### Compiling Via IDE
- Open the `UndertaleModTool.sln` in the IDE of your choice (Visual Studio, JetBrains Rider, Visual Studio Code etc.)
- Select the project you want to compile
- Compile

#### Compiling Via Command Line
- Open a terminal and navigate to the directory of `UndertaleModTool.sln`
- Execute `dotnet publish <Project>` where `<Project>` is one of the projects listed above.

> You can also provide arguments for compiling, such as `--no-self-contained` or `-c release`. For a full list of arguments, consult the [Microsoft Documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-publish)

Reviewer: I noticed that a `.` is missing at the end of this sentence.
